Ubuntu Command Line
================

File and Directory Management
----------------

a. `ls` (Type: Display Command):
- Function: Lists files and directories in the current directory.

.. code-block:: bash

    **Example**: Use the following command to list files and directories.
    ```
    ls
    ```

b. `cd` (Type: Navigation Command):
- Function: Changes the current directory.

.. code-block:: bash

    **Example**: Move to a specific directory.
    ```
    cd /path/to/directory
    ```

c. `pwd` (Type: Display Command):
- Function: Prints the full path of the current working directory.

.. code-block:: bash

    **Example**: Display the current working directory.
    ```
    pwd
    ```

d. `mkdir` (Type: Creation Command):
- Function: Creates a new directory.

.. code-block:: bash

    **Example**: Create a new directory.
    ```
    mkdir new_directory
    ```

e. `rmdir` (Type: Deletion Command):
- Function: Removes an empty directory.

.. code-block:: bash

    **Example**: Remove an empty directory.
    ```
    rmdir empty_directory
    ```

f. `rm` (Type: Deletion Command):
- Function: Deletes a file or directory.

.. code-block:: bash
    
    **Example**: Delete a file.
    ```
    rm file.txt
    ```

g. `cp` (Type: Copy Command):
- Function: Copies files or directories.

.. code-block:: bash

    **Example**: Copy a file to a destination.
    ```
    cp file.txt /path/to/destination
    ```

h. `mv` (Type: Move Command):
- Function: Moves files or directories.

.. code-block:: bash

    **Example**: Move a file to a destination.
    ```
    mv file.txt /path/to/destination
    ```

Text Editing
----------------

i. `nano` (Type: Text Editor Command):
- Function: Opens the Nano text editor to edit a file.

.. code-block:: bash

    **Example**: Open Nano to edit a file.
    ```
    nano document.txt
    ```

j. `vi` (Type: Text Editor Command):
- Function: Opens the Vim text editor to edit a file.

.. code-block:: bash

    **Example**: Open Vim to edit a file.
    ```
    vi document.txt
    ```

k. `gedit` (Type: Text Editor Command):
- Function: Opens the Gedit text editor to edit a file.

.. code-block:: bash

    **Example**: Open Gedit to edit a file.
    ```
    gedit document.txt
    ```

System Information and Management
----------------

l. `echo` (Type: Display Command):
- Function: Prints text to the terminal.

.. code-block:: bash

    **Example**: Print a message.
    ```
    echo "Hello, World!"
    ```

m. `cat` (Type: Display Command):
- Function: Displays the contents of a file.

.. code-block:: bash

    **Example**: Display the contents of a file.
    ```
    cat file.txt
    ```

n. `apt-get` (Type: Package Management Command):
- Function: Manages software packages on Debian-based systems.

.. code-block:: bash

    **Example**: Update package lists.
    ```
    sudo apt-get update
    ```

.. code-block:: 
    
    **Example**: Upgrade installed packages.
    ```
    sudo apt-get upgrade
    ```

.. code-block:: bash

    **Example**: Install a new package.
    ```
    sudo apt-get install package_name
    ```

o. `top` (Type: System Monitoring Command):
- Function: Displays real-time system information.

.. code-block:: bash

    **Example**: Display system information.
    ```
    top
    ```

- These examples provide detailed explanations and usage scenarios for each command. Adjust the command parameters as needed for your specific use case.